>> Out front now, doctor
Barbara's end.
And doctors, and it is
incredible to finally see.
I know you are literally on
your way, back home.
I can only imagine the
conflicted feelings you have
about that, you are eager to be
going home, but of course leave
behind so much suffering.
How do you feel right now?
>> Well, just as you said, I
feel mixed.
I am relieved to be on my way
home, I know being there, I
couldn't do anything to help
what was going on.
But also, yeah, just so sad for
the people of gaza, and
concerned about what is going
to be going on in the next
weeks to months to, however
long it takes to getome peace
there.
>> And, there is so much
suffering.
I know Barbara while you are,
there it was so hard for you to
get any contact.
I mean, your husband, Paul who
we respect to every day,
sometimes he got a text from,
you sometimes he couldn't even.
And he was obviously quite
distressed.
But you know, there were times
he told us you are sleeping in
a car with six other people.
You had reported that food and
water were in short supply.
You have seen people fighting
over food outside of the
compound where you were.
And you talked about a toilet
shared by 800 people, which
just to imagine the thought of
that what that means for,
people the duress.
What more can you tell us about
the conditions inside gaza
right now, doctors and?
>> Well, it is great that the
aid is moving in, but there is
so much more aid that is
needed.
And so, it's so difficult.
The --
ran out of water.
And we were getting short on
water.
And at one point, we only
thought we had about two more
days of food left.
And, we were able to have
someone risked their lives and go to north, gaza and get some
food for our.
Group and we were the fortunate
ones.
Really, people were just having
trouble just getting food,
finding food in the grocery
stores.
And getting water.
A friend of mine there today
says he is drinking the tap
water, which is salty, and not
safe, 80% of the water there is
unsafe.
So it is concerning, it is
concerning about the health.
And like you said, the toilet
issues, the sanitation, that's
--
dysentery for those, especially
the children there.
And you know, that's half of
the population.
>> >> Yes and of course the
population to which you have
dedicated your career, and your
life and your care.
For doctors in, I mention your
husband Paul, and I just want
to bring him into the
conversation.
Because he was with us, and
everyone watching every day,
sharing any update he had, from
you throughout this entire
ordeal.
I know you can see Barbara,
literally on her way to come
home to you.
How does it feel to finally be
in this, moment to see her, to
know that she is safe, and you
know that she is on her way
home to you?
>> Well it's incredible.
It's one of those things where,
I knew it would happen, but it
seemed like time was dragging
on.
And then at some point, I did
get pretty pessimistic.
But otherwise, I am just very
happy that she is on her way
home.
>> Doctors in I mean, I know
that you can talk.
But here in this moment.
I mean, is there anything that
you would want to say to Paul,
before you get on that plane.
And, obviously you'll be with
him tomorrow, right at this
time?
>> Yeah I you know, I think
it's harder to --
we had challenges here.
But you know, it's harder to --
and so I really, I really
appreciate all the love and
support --
and.
And I just am also there for
them.
>> Well they had such
incredible care for.
You doctors, you mentioned your
conflicted feelings, because of
what you are leaving behind.
This was not your first trip to
gaza, you have been several
times before, to help children
there.
Do you think you will go back?
>> I have to talk to Paul about
that.
I definitely want to come back,
and continue to work with
Palestinian children.
But, we will have to make that
a family discussions, right.
>> Paul?
>> Yet we'll, we'll have
vigorous discourse on that,
yes.
>> I can only imagine.
I guess I'm glad that, I guess
I'm glad eavesdropping on your
conversation here, it made us
all smile, in such a moment of
darkness and pain and
everything that you have
witnessed and endured, doctors
and.
My thoughts are with you.
And police have a safe trip
home, and we will all be so
glad that the two of you will
be reunited, and your son as
well.
So thank you, again.